docs: platform content (#7091)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Develop/develop-application.md

The `docker.env` file is copied to the Docker image as a `.env` file in the container root. This file controls Langflow's behavior, holds secrets, and configures runtime settings like authentication, database storage, API keys, and server configurations.

The `Dockerfile` controls how your image is built. This file copies your flows and `docker.env` files to your image.

### Package management

The base Docker image includes the Langflow core dependencies by using `langflowai/langflow:latest` as the parent image.

If your application requires additional dependencies, create a `pyproject.toml` file and add the dependencies to the file. For more information, see [Install custom dependencies](/install-custom-dependencies).

To deploy the application with the additional dependencies to Docker, copy the `pyproject.toml` and `uv.lock` files to the Docker image by adding the following to the Dockerfile.

```text
COPY pyproject.toml uv.lock /app/
```

## Environment variables

The `docker.env` file is a `.env` file loaded into your Docker image.

> This example `docker.env` defines auto-login behavior and which port to expose. Your environment may vary. For more information, see [Environment variables](/environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example `docker.env` file defines auto-login behavior and which port to expose. Your environment may vary. For more information, see [Environment variables](/environment-variables).
```

## Add flows and components

Add your flow's `.JSON` files to the `/flows` folder.

To export your flows from Langflow, see [Flows](/concepts-flows).

Optionally, add any custom components to a `/components` folder, and specify the path in your `docker.env`.

## Package your Langflow project in a Docker image

1. Add the following commands to your Dockerfile.

```dockerfile
# Use the latest version of langflow
FROM langflowai/langflow:latest

# Create accessible folders and set the working directory in the container
RUN mkdir /app/flows
RUN mkdir /app/langflow-config-dir
WORKDIR /app

# Copy the flows, optional components, and langflow-config-dir folders to the container
COPY flows /app/flows
COPY components /app/components
COPY langflow-config-dir /app/langflow-config-dir

# copy docker.env file
COPY docker.env /app/.env

# Set environment variables
ENV PYTHONPATH=/app
ENV LANGFLOW_LOAD_FLOWS_PATH=/app/flows
ENV LANGFLOW_CONFIG_DIR=/app/langflow-config-dir
ENV LANGFLOW_COMPONENTS_PATH=/app/components
ENV LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container

# Command to run the server
EXPOSE 7860
CMD ["langflow", "run", "--backend-only", "--env-file","/app/.env","--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "7860"]
```

> The environment variables set in the Dockerfile specify resource paths and allow Langflow to access them. Values from `docker.env` will override the values set in the Dockerfile. Additionally, logging behavior is set here with `ENV LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container` for serialized JSON to `stdout`, for tracking your application's behavior in a containerized environment. For more information on configuring logs, see [Logging](/logging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The environment variables set in the Dockerfile specify resource paths and allow Langflow to access them. Values from `docker.env` override the values set in the Dockerfile. Additionally, logging behavior is set here with `ENV LANGFLOW_LOG_ENV=container` for serialized JSON to `stdout`, for tracking your application's behavior in a containerized environment. For more information on configuring logs, see [Logging](/logging).
```
